- [Instructor] Spring batch supports many schedulers,
including an open source Java based scheduler named Quartz.
Within Quartz, a scheduler is used to trigger a job.
These concepts align well with those found in Spring Batch,
making the two a great pair.
Let's take a look at how to schedule
a batch job with Quartz.
When first getting started with Quartz
you need to update your pom.xml file
in order to include the dependencies for Quartz.
I've already included this dependency within my pom.
You'll notice that Spring Boot provides
a spring-boot-starter-quartz dependency,
which will apply many auto configurations for you
to help you get up and running quickly.
After updating your pom, the next thing
that you'll need to do is have your application class
extend a QuartzJobBean.
Once we extend the QuartzJobBean we'll need to add
some methods that are required by that class.
So just hover over the marker, hit Control + one
and add unimplemented methods.
And then we'll scroll down to the bottom of our class
and I'm just going to pull this up to the top of our class
so we can apply our configuration there.
So you'll notice that Quartz requires us
to specify the execute internal method.
This is where we're going to launch our job.
Now in order to do that, we're going to have to
auto increment some of our job parameters.
And that means we'll need to auto wire in a JobExplorer.
Now the JobExplorer is provided by Spring Batch it is not
part of the Quartz dependencies.
And once we have that JobExplorer we can begin work
on our executeInternal method.
So the first thing we'll do is start to build
some job parameters.
So I'm going to create an object of type JobParameters
and then we'll use the JobParametersBuilder
and within the JobParametersBuilder you'll see there
is a constructor that accepts a jobExplorer.
So we can pass our jobExplorer into that constructor
and then we can invoke the get next job parameters
and this is going to cause the job parameters
to auto-increment.
So let's go ahead and then pass in our job,
which is a required argument for that method,
and then we can call the toJobParameters method
in order to build our JobParameters.
Okay, so we have parameters and then we're just going to use
our job launcher which we'll need to auto wire in
to the class.
So let's go ahead and auto wire that in
and once again this is a Spring object
that we're working with as opposed to Quartz.
So using the jobLauncher we can then go ahead
and run our job with the parameters that we've specified.
Now we'll also need to catch the exceptions thrown
from the job launcher.
So let's go ahead and add our try catch block
and that completes our configuration
of the executeInternal method.
Now we need to provide some of the Quartz dependencies.
The first one that we're going to satisfy is the JobDetail.
So we'll go ahead and declare a method named jobDetail
that returns a jobDetail object.
This is going to be a bean so we'll apply
the Bean annotation and then within this method
we're going to create a jobDetail which is a concept
within Quartz and to create it we can use a jobBuilder.
You'll notice that's the org.quartz.JobBuilder
and this variant of the new job method allows us to specify
a class that contains our job.
Now in our case that's going to be
our LinkedinBatchApplication class so let's go ahead,
we'll pass the class to the new job method
and then from there we're going to invoke the storeDurably
method and this will cause information regarding our job
to be retained and then we're just going to call
the build method on the builder.
So that configures our job detail bean and there's one other
object we need to create.
This will be a bean and it's going to be a trigger.
So this is going to determine when we execute our job.
So let's go ahead, we'll pull in the org.quarzt.Trigger
and from here we can build a trigger that is based
off of a schedule.
So we have a simple schedule builder within Quartz
and I'll just name this object scheduleBuilder
and using the SimpleScheduleBuilder we can chain
some calls together to build that schedule.
So we specify the type of schedule as simpleSchedule
and then we can use the with interval methods.
So here you can see there are various intervals
that we can use to kick off our job.
And since we want to keep our time short here we're going
to specify that the job kicks off every 30 seconds
but you saw there were options for hourly as well
as you can specify the number of minutes as an interval too.
Okay, and then we're going to indicate that we would like
this schedule to repeatForever.
And now we can go ahead and build our trigger.
So we can create a TriggerBuilder object and on it it has
a newTrigger method and from here we can
chain different calls.
So our trigger is going to be for a job, so we'll specify
the jobDetail within the forJob method
and that's going to cause this trigger to apply
to the job we've defined within our jobDetail method.
The next thing we'll do is specify our schedule.
So here we can go ahead and pass in our schedule builder
and it will build the schedule for the job for us
and then we just have to call the build method on this
builder and then it's looking for this generic type,
we can go ahead and remove that.
Okay, so now we have a trigger.
So there's just one last piece of configuration
that needs to be put in place and that's adding an
incrementer to our Spring batch configuration.
Because we're going to be executing this job on a schedule
we need to be able to automatically increment
the job parameters.
That way we get separate job instances with every run.
To do that there's an incrementer method on the job builder
and we can just pass in a RunIdIncrementer
and that's essentially just going to create
a new ID incremementing one every time we run the job.
Okay, so everything's in place, let's head over
to our console and we'll go ahead and run this job
and we should see Quartz schedule the execution
of our job every 30 seconds.
That trigger will kick it off for us on that schedule.
So we do see that Quartz kicked off the job initially
and now we should see another run in 30 seconds.
And there was our second run kicked off by Quartz.
So this lesson showed us how to integrate
the Quartz scheduler with Spring batch.
It's just one of the many options you have
when scheduling batch jobs.
The creators of spring batch intentionally decided
to make the scheduler agnostic so that any scheduling
framework can be used to schedule jobs with Spring batch.